.TH DEPARTAI 1 "June 24, 2026" "DepartAI" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
departai \- orchestrate two AI coding agents in a sequential relay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B departai
.RI [ flags ]
.RI [ prompt ]
.br
.B departai completion
.IR bash | zsh | fish
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B departai
runs two AI coding agents in a deterministic, sequential relay on a shared
task. Each agent can use a different backend and model (e.g. Alpha on Claude,
Beta on OpenAI Codex), so two model families catch each other's blind spots.
Agents hand off context through a shared task log, review each other's work
each turn, and stop only when both independently agree the task is complete and
every acceptance criterion in a shared spec is checked.
.PP
With no
.I prompt
argument, departai starts an interactive REPL. With a
.I prompt
argument, it runs a single task and exits.
.PP
At least one supported backend CLI
.RB ( claude
or
.BR codex )
must be installed and authenticated \(em departai uses your own LLM
subscription(s).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-dir " path"
Working directory where agents operate (default: current directory).
.TP
.BI \-\-backend " name"
Agent backend to use:
.B claude
(default) or
.BR codex .
.TP
.BI \-\-model " name"
Model to use; overrides config. Validated against the active backend.
.TP
.BI \-\-instructions " path"
Path to a custom base instructions markdown file.
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-turns " n"
Maximum number of agent turns per run (0 = unlimited).
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-turn\-duration " dur"
Per-turn wall-clock budget in Go duration format (e.g.
.BR 15m ", " 1h30m );
empty = no limit.
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-window " n"
Inject only the last N turns into each prompt (0 = full log). Reduces token
cost on long tasks.
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-retries " n"
Retries per turn on a transient backend failure (rate limit, 5xx, network
blip); 0 disables. Default 2.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit. Add
.B \-\-verbose
for commit, build date, and Go toolchain.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
More detailed output (e.g. full build info with
.BR \-\-version ).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI "completion " shell
Print a shell completion script for
.BR bash ", " zsh ", or " fish
to standard output.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is loaded in layers (later wins): built-in defaults, then
.IR ~/.departai/config.yml " (user-global), then"
.IR <project>/.departai/config.yml " (project-level), then CLI flags."
Keys include
.BR mode ", " agent_backend ", " backend_alpha / backend_beta ", "
.BR model ", " model_alpha / model_beta ", " max_turns ", "
.BR max_turn_duration ", " log_window ", " max_retries ", and "
.BR blocked_commands .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DEPARTAI_MAX_STREAM_LINE_MB
Maximum size, in megabytes, of a single backend stream line (default 16).
Raise it for pathological outputs.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.departai/config.yml
User-global configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.departai/history.txt
Persistent REPL command history.
.TP
.I <project>/.departai/config.yml
Project-level configuration.
.TP
.I <project>/.departai/tasks/<id>/
Per-task spec, task log, and raw turn logs.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start the interactive REPL:
.B departai
.TP
Run a single task:
.B departai "Add unit tests to the parser"
.TP
Use a specific backend and model:
.B departai \-\-backend codex \-\-model gpt-5.3-codex "Fix the failing CI"
.TP
Install zsh completions:
.B departai completion zsh > ~/.zsh/completions/_departai
.SH SEE ALSO
Project home and documentation: https://github.com/manurgdev/departai
.SH AUTHOR
Manuel Rodriguez Gil and contributors.
